---
id: 336
title: '2020 Reflections'
date: '2020-12-31T22:40:00+00:00'
author: Dara Oladapo
excerpt: 'In 2020, there were 2 main things that stood out for my family as answer to prayers. I became a dad and I finally moved to the UK. For this, I am extremely grateful to God.'
layout: post
guid: 'https://daraoladapo.com/stg_34b49/?p=336'
permalink: /2020/12/31/2020-reflections/
ekit_post_views_count:
    - '1'
categories:
    - General
---

2020 has been quite a year. We smiled, laughed cried and had all sorts of feelings come our way. For most of us, we felt 2020 would be that year that we hit it big but Corona happened.

I thank God that 2020 has been a good one through it all. One of the things I decided to do in 2020 was to be deliberate about projects I take on – to not just take these projects because the money is good. In this regard, I would give me a 3 out of 5. I was able to say no to some, said yes to some but they didn’t work out.

In 2020, there were 2 main things that stood out for my family as answer to prayers. I became a dad and I finally moved to the UK. For this, I am extremely grateful to God.

For 2020, I only looked forward to 2 things and I am glad both worked out. But aside these 2, there were lots of other events that stood out in 2020.

- Supported my wife more – as simple as it sounds, it’s a lot to me and mine
- I learnt how to say and stick to my NO and not be guilt-tripped into doing things I don’t want to do
- Started livestreaming – as part of my life-long plan to speak to anyone I can about technology
- Grew my YouTube channel from 100+ subscribers to 1k+
- Started a developer focused podcast and grew to over 2.5k listens
- Started investing (not bitcoin or forex)
- Resumed my reading habit (eBooks and kindles)
- Listened to tons of podcasts
- Resumed active music – sax, flute and even got an EWI

In 2020, there were a lot of wins from my friends also

- Many got married
- Some got engaged
- Some got specific answers to their prayers
- Some welcomed their firstborns
- Some got MVP awards
- Some got new jobs
- Some released their music albums

It was indeed a really good year all in all.

For 2021, I choose to still go with my minimal goals list – just a little bit more.

- Be more present with my family
- Serve God more
- Create more content
- Do more music
- Continually grow my tech skills
- Invest more

That’s it for 2020. Have a great new year!