---
title: 'My 2020 H2 Media Kit'
date: '2020-12-27T11:07:00+00:00'
author: Dara Oladapo
excerpt: 'Nothing changed with my computers, although I plan to move my main media rig now to a desktop so I can have a swappable high-performance GPU as my main graphics driver. (I nulled that thought for 2020/2021 because the PC still works fine and what I need is more storage)'
permalink: /2020/12/27/my-2020-h2-media-kit/
categories:
    - General
---

In one of my earlier posts, I detailed [my livestream kit](https://daraoladapo.com/smooth-dev-saturday-stream-kit/). Since then, I have made massive update to the devices and improved on audio and video quality.

In this post, I will share my updated kit (still listing the old ones in use) and some links (affiliate) where you can get them.

# Computer

Nothing changed with my computers, although I plan to move my main media rig now to a desktop so I can have a swappable high-performance GPU as my main graphics driver. (I nulled that thought for 2020/2021 because the PC still works fine and what I need is more storage)

Main Rig: HP Spectre X360 15” 2017 Model – 16GB, 512GB M.2 PCIe-NVMe SSD, Intel Core i7 Processor with Nvidia GeForce 940MX hooked up to two HP 24” monitors.

Other computers:

- MacBook Pro 2016 – 16GB RAM, 256GB SSD, Intel Core i7 with AMD Radeon Graphics Card
- Microsoft Surface Pro 4 – 4GB RAM, 128GB SSD, Intel Core i5

I use the Mac as a backup stream device and primarily for building iOS app. As far as media work is concerned, it does not really do much. The Surface Pro 4 I use for drawing with Microsoft Whiteboard with a pen and doing all other non-core work stuff.

# Storage

Coming from me nulling my idea of getting a new desktop, I decided to go with the idea of getting a large external storage for storing my media files – they are starting to get large.

I got the [WD 10TB external hard drive](https://amzn.to/3mSnoxZ) to store my videos and extremely large files that I use frequently. Judging from my current. PC performance in the first few days of usage I can say this was a wise decision.

I have 2 mobile backups – 1 2TB and 4TB Seagate drives. 2TB for my old backup and the 4TB for my most recent backup.

# Camera

Currently, I got about 4 cameras – 2 DSLRs (both Canon EOS 1300D), 1 USB Webcam (Logitech C920 Pro Webcam) and a Kinect. Here is how I use them.

- 1 of the DSLRs is permanently connected via USB to my main rig and has a dummy battery for continuous power supply.
- The other DSLR is connected to my Surface Pro 4 for a secondary angle shoot and is also the mobile camera for capturing family photos and moments.
- The Logitech C920 Pro I use for work conference calls but occasionally use it for [making my unboxing videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2r2ohjWMnGM&list=PLLPoUzIf1nXolo7AnYzSFB88a0cRIka7R).
- My Kinect for Windows v2 works as another camera for unboxing, wide-angle shoots and sometimes video meetings.

# Audio

Audio is where it gets fun.

My primary audio device is a 2-in-1: microphone + audio mixer – the [Samson G-Track Pro](https://amzn.to/3pu31ZM). To this, I connect the [August EP650](https://amzn.to/3nUOp53) headset. The nice bit of my microphone/audio mixer is that I can have another audio input through the jack at the back.

For other purposes, I use my Sony [WH-CH700N Headset](https://amzn.to/38CRLmW) for when I have guest on my podcast in conjunction with VoiceMeeter audio software.

# Remote Control

For remoting, I use [Deckboard](https://deckboard.app) Pro and [Steam Deck Mobile app](https://www.elgato.com/en/gaming/stream-deck-mobile) connected to my main rig for hands-free streaming software control.

# Software

For streaming and recording, I use

- Open Broadcaster Software (OBS) for livestreaming, sometimes recording.
- Techsmith Camtasia for editing video, recording screencasts and courses
- Wondershare Filmora for editing my videos from external sources
- NCH MiPad for recording and editing audio

## Others

For most other things that are general, I will just put them in the list below:

- Ring Light
- Dummy Battery for DSLR
- 10TB WD Elements
- JS-LED Strip Light
- Amazon Echo Show 8
- Logitech M720 Triathlon Wireless Mouse
- Logitech K780 Multi-Device Keyboard

I hope you enjoyed reading through and was able to pick one or two for your media work. Enjoy the new year.